
ruts - a habit or pattern of behaviour that has become dull and unproductive but is hard to change
tweak -
tampering - interfere with something in order to make damage or unauthorized acess

LOP - Leap of faith
exculde - deny , previl, ban, eliminate

crowdsourcing - 

uprooted - pull out of the groung (tree fallen with roots), rip out, pull up
sacking - the act of dismissing someone from employment (laying off, firing ???) termination employment
invaluable - extermely useful, irreplaceable

brevity - consise wording and delivery 

intruder - trespasser, a person enter into a organization with specialy into a criminal intent 
rage - violent uncontrollably anger
devastated - destory or ruin
anticlimatic - disappionment at the end

enumerable - able to be counted by one-to-one correspondence with the set of all positive integers.
comrades -colleague
erduite - showing or knowing great knowledge and learning 
charsimatic - 

edge out - slowly becomes unsuccessfull 
(out of the league ^.^) - too good or expensive for someone


anxiety - Intense, excessive and persistent (worry) and fear about everyday situations.
wreck - Damage, destroy, demolish, crash 
drwan - anxiety Synonyms
truncated - shorten, cutting off the top or the end 

Mortgage - When people buys loan from the bank, banks ask for security(for there money) they will acquire our property for temporary 
and we need to pay in specfic period of time, or else they will take the property from us. Like a Bait ??
=======
bizarre - very strange or unusal 

Fatigue is a term used to describe an overall feeling of tiredness or lack of energy.

upfront - the cash is payed in advance, or payment is made is made before the work starts 
paradigm - it is like model or a pattern, example, standard
daunting - seeming difficult to deal with in prospect; intimidating

expelled - officially make (someone) leave a school or other organization., remove 

visionary - a person with the original idea about what the future will or could be like

ample - enough or more than enough; plentiful. (having good amount of time) 
optimistic - hopeful and confident about the future 

distributed system and parallel system 

clumsy - awkward in moments in handling things, cumbersome
ambitious - having or showing strong desire to achive something 
citations - they way you tell your readers that this source is came from another source (Plagarism).
forbid - refuse to allow something like ban
dismay

ace - expert, master, genius, wonderful, magnificent, outstanding 
redundancy - state of being not or no loonger needed or useful
redundant - not or no longer needed or useful, unnecessary
anomaly - something that deviates from what is standard, normal, or expected.(if the dog gives breed in white and it gives in black)

nocturnal - done, occurring, or active at night. (Nocturnality is an animal behavior characterized by being active during the night 
and sleeping during the day. The common adjective is "nocturnal", versus diurnal meaning the opposite. Nocturnal creatures generally
have highly developed senses of hearing, smell, and specially adapted eyesight.)

indie - independent 
eternal - like forever lasting or existing forever, without end

endure - suffer (something painful or difficult) patiently.remain in existence last.
prevail - prove more powerful or superior, persude to do something
merly - just only, simply, entierly

maroon - leave someone(trapped) and alone in an inaccessible place, especially an island, cast away, abandon

doer - a person who does something, a person who acts rather than merely talking or thinking
imminent - about to happen, close, near, approaching
replica - an exact copy or model of something, especially one on a smaller scale 

prophecy - a prediction of what will happen in future
indigenous - native people, originating or occurring in a particular place, native 

reassurance - the action of removing someone's' doubts or fears, a statement that removes someone's doubts or fears.
embargo - denied 
rapport - a close and harmonious relationship in which the people or groups concerned understand each other's feelings or 
ideas and communicate well.

brag - say something in a boastful manner- show off
bereavement - the action or condition of beign bereaved, loss (sudden death) sorry 
sugar_coat - coat (an item of the food) with sugar 

fixation - an obsessive interest in or feeling about someone or something 
transient - lasting only for a short time, impermanent 
obsessive - 
compulsions - 
